CSCB58 Project Report: Summer 2019

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Harshit 
Last Name: Patel
Student Number: 1004779215
UofT E-mail Address: patel.patel@mail.utoronto.ca


Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Kshitij
Last Name: Dahal
Student Number: 1005198046
UofT E-mail Address: kshitij.dahal@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member C
-------------
First Name: Mahamad
Last Name: Jawid
Student Number: 1005580961
UofT E-mail Address: jawad.jawid@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member D
-------------
First Name: Raj
Last Name: Patel
Student Number: 1005240721
UofT E-mail Address: rap.patel@mail.utoronto.ca


Project Plan
--------

Project Title: Snakes and ladders


Provide a one paragraph description of your project:
It's a snakes and ladders game where the counters are used to roll the dice (random) and registers used
to keep track of the players turn and player's position on the board.
Hex displays will display who's turn it is and the number rolled. A screen will be used
to display the game pieces and the board itself.

What is your plan for the first week?
We will attempt to complete the counters for the player's turns and work on implementing 
a random roll sequencer. We will also try to get the board to display on the screen.

What is your plan for the second week?
We will attempt to implement keeping track of the game pieces and implement restarting the game.

What is your plan for the third week?
We will finish the project and add features to show the winner

What is your backup plan if things don't work out as planned?
A 2d car game where the player must avoid obstacles.


Weekly Reports
--------------
Week 1: 
We successfully came up with a mathematical formula to create a lookup table that maps the coordinates of the board to the boxes. 
Then we implemented this formula using a C program to create the lookup table in Verilog.
Using an online picture for the board background wasn't ideal, because all the pictures we found were very complicated and full of colors, 
which was too much for the low-resolution screen. We had to design a bmp background of the game board from scratch and convert it to mif. 
The result wasn't very good. So we will be trying to fix that next week.  

Week 2:
We successfully managed to fix the board background picture this week as planned. 
We did so by using a different online picture of a slightly higher resolution and then manually drawing 
over certain pixels in order to increase clarity and add a greater contrast between different elements of the board. 
We also were able to make the basic functionality of the game work meaning that we were able to keep track 
of the position of each player and change it accordingly based on the dice number rolled and presence of any snakes or ladders. 
However, we had difficulty in displaying the game pieces and their simple movement on the screen which we will attempt to get working next week.   

Week 3:
We were able to successfully finish the project on time. Before the start of this week, we had three problems: 
 
We weren't able to reset the pieces after moving them (eg. you were at 4 and you get a 5 after rolling the dice, you’d move to 9, but also stay at 4), in other words there was a bug were it is possible to have two instances of the same player on the board at the same time.
We weren't able to show a piece of the other player on the screen. We were able to just show one player on the screen at a time. 
We weren’t able to start a new game after one ended or in the middle of the game. 
We fixed the first issue by keeping track of previous position and the color of each player, so that we can draw over the previous position.
We fixed the second issue by adding a counter. This counter counts how many pixels were drawn after the roll of dice. Once the counter reached 9, we know player one’s piece has been drawn. Then we gave the signal to draw second player’s piece.
We fixed this issue by fixing the reset command. We made our program to remember the starting position and the previous position of players.

After fixing these issues, we decided to add some features to the game, like making a sound using a speaker after one of the players win, or showing a congratulations message on the screen. We weren't able to do any of these, because we knew that doing any of them will take more time than we have. 
Instead, we were successful in making the board turn lights blink in pattern as a sign of celebration when one of the players win.We also added a feature where a green light turns on every time a player lands on a ladder, and a red light turn on when a player lands on a snake.


What we would have done if we had more time
-----------------------------------------------------------

If we had more time we would have drawn the background rather than using a mif file. This would have allowed us to add animation for moving the pieces on the board (as well going up the ladder and going down the snake).


References
----------
Used .jpg to .mif converter from https://github.com/LonghornEngineer/img2mif

Used logic to convert binary to decimal from https://pubweb.eng.utah.edu/~nmcdonal/Tutorials/BCDTutorial/BCDConversion.html?fbclid=IwAR0emfVIdheQlSdZl4Bf6BEZnt6qcfK_8iqh9HHdvLgyzbMJSPxwabHs0VM 

VGA module is taken from Lab6 of CSCB58 summer 2019 course.

Repo & Video
------------
Link to Repo:   https://github.com/PHarshit/CSCB58ProjectSnakesAndLadders
Link to Video:  https://youtu.be/GuBoGwkqVcU
